CloudWatch Logs Insights enables you to interactively search and analyze your log data in Amazon CloudWatch Logs. You can perform queries to help you more efficiently and effectively respond to operational issues. If an issue occurs, you can use CloudWatch Logs Insights to identify potential causes and validate deployed fixes.

CloudWatch Logs Insights includes a purpose-built query language with a few simple but powerful commands. CloudWatch Logs Insights provides sample queries, command descriptions, query autocompletion, and log field discovery to help you get started. Sample queries are included for several types of AWS service logs.

CloudWatch Logs Insights automatically discovers fields in logs from AWS services such as Amazon Route 53, AWS Lambda, AWS CloudTrail, and Amazon VPC, and any application or custom log that emits log events as JSON.

You can use CloudWatch Logs Insights to search log data that was sent to CloudWatch Logs on November 5, 2018 or later.

You can save queries that you have created. This can help you run complex queries when you need, without having to re-create them each time that you want to run them.

What data will we use?

Note that this module uses logs generated by the PetSite application. You can use your own log data, but the format, and therefore the query logic will be different. If you are using an AWS account provided to you as part of an organized event, this will already be set up for you. Otherwise, see [getting started with your own AWS account](https://catalog.us-east-1.prod.workshops.aws/event/dashboard/en-US/workshop/installation) for instructions to deploy the PetSite application.

[Learn more about this topic...](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/logs/AnalyzingLogData.html)